## Comparison between Alexander and Agile methods

David Ing is the one of the person with the freshest/clearer brain/view on patterns. His arguments are simple and of strong value. Keypoints are listed here

He compares Alexander's generative construction method (as described in "the battle for the life and beauty of the earth") and agile méthods. The way of describing " from A to B" is a good way to show difference between traditional/cartesian/linear approaches and systemic approaches.


## Alexandrian methods -- pattern language, budget, reality of the land
Alexandrian methods for built environments

**(i) Pattern language for the community**
- (a) Interviewing on hopes and dreams
- (b) Making a first sketch of a patttern languages
- (c) Making a first draft pattern language from teachers‘ comments
- (d) Checking seven principles for completeness of the languages
- (e) Refining the language
- (f) Creating pattern language as a list of key centers

**(ii) Construction budget**
- (a) Making a record of all of the spaces and areas which were defined by the pattern languages
- (b) Trimming all space to available budget, as an average percentage reduction for all items of interior space, and then exterior space
- (c) Asking faculty to re-allocate the spaces, keeping the same trimmed totals, conforming with  the available resources

**(iii) Reality of the land** 
- (a) Laying out the site plan on the ground
- (b) Finding the two fundamental systems of centers, and combine them
- (c) Visualizing the evolving site plan with marks on the land (e.g. flags)
- (d) Fixing first hardline drawings of detailed positions on the site (position, orientation, dimension)
- (e) Judging detailed building positions on the land (with flags)
- (f) Recording the site plan on paper


## Agile methods – user stories, scoping, reviewing iteratively
Agile methods originating from software development (e.g. scrum)

**(i) Writing user stories (with Behavior Driven Development)**
- (a) Card (new capability on front side): As a [role], I want to [action/function] so that [value]
- (b) Conversation: Details as conditions of satisfaction (represented by product owner)
- (c) Confirmation (acceptance tests, on back side): Given [some initial context], when [an event occurs], then [ensure some outcomes]

**(ii) Scoping; estimating value, costs and dates**
- (a) Scoping projects (i.e. portfolio, solutions, releases)
- (b) Estimating size (e.g. story points), derive duration (aggregating into themes, splitting epics)
- (c) Identifying risks (e.g. technical, organizational, delivery)

**(iii) Reviewing iteratively; tracking work item backlogs**
- (a) Demonstrating iterations to stakeholders, conducting retrospective reviews
- (b) Tracking sprint velocity (though kanban, backlog, burn-down)
- (c) Coordinating daily for blockers (e.g. Scrum stand-up)




## From System-B to System-A

1. Pattern language for the community: From preprogrammed assembly to local adaptation with feedback and correction
2. Construction budget: From overemphasizing tangible aspects to negotiating collective feelings
3. Reality of the land: From drawing abstract layout plans to adjusting the wholeness on the real site


## From waterfall methods to agile

1. Writing user stories: From detailing specifications to  conversing on narratives
2. Scoping; estimating value,  costs and dates: From projecting and committing to converging on estimates
3. Reviewing iteratively; tracking work item backlogs: From dividing-and-conquering to collaborating for learning

## Amplifications from Alexandrian to service systems thinking

### 1.Shared meaning on the situated

The pattern is merely a mental image, which can help to predict those situations where forces will be in harmony, and those in which they won‘t. **But the actual forces which will occur in a real situation, although objectively present there, are, in the end unpredictable,  because each situation is so complex, and forces may grow, or die, according to subtle variations of circumstance (Alexander, 1979, pp. 285–286).**

### 2.Systems thinking and complexity

Systems generating systems
1. There are two ideas hidden in the word system: the idea of a system as a whole and the idea of a generating system.
2. A system as a whole is not an object but a way of looking at an object. It focuses on some holistic property which can only be understood as a product of interaction among parts.
3. A generating system is not a view of a single thing. It is a kit of parts, with rules about the way these parts may be combined.
4. **Almost every ‘system as a whole’ is generated by a ‘generating system’**. If we wish to make things which function as ‘wholes’ we shall have to invent generating systems to create them.
In a properly functioning building, the building and the people in it together form a whole: a social, human whole. 
The building systems which have so far been created do not in this sense generate wholes at all (Alexander, 1968, p. 605).

### 3.Method content + development process

Volume 1, The Timeless Way of Building [TWB], and Volume 2, A Pattern Language [APL], are two halves of a single work. This book [APL] provides a language, for building and planning; the other book [TWB] provides the theory and instructions for the sue of the language. 

This book [APL] describes the detailed patterns for towns and neighbourhoods, houses, gardens and rooms. 

The other book [TWB] explains the discipline which makes it possible to use these patterns to create a building or a town.  This book [APL] is the sourcebook of the timeless way; the other [TWB] is its practice and its origin (Alexander et al., 1977, p. ix).

# David Ing's applied patterning
david_ing_applied_patterning.md

## Source
CC-BY-NC-SA
David Ing, 2016 - Pattern Manual for Service Systems Thinking: http://coevolving.com/pubs/20161028_PUARL_Ing_PatternManualForServiceSystems_v1029a.pdf
