# David Ing's applied patterning

David Ing is the one of the person with the freshest/clearer brain/view on patterns. His arguments are simple and of strong value. Keypoints are listed here



# Comparison between Alexander and Agile methods

He compares Alexander's generative construction method (as described in "the battle for the life and beauty of the earth") and agile méthods. The way of describing " from A to B" is a good way to show difference between traditional/cartesian/linear approaches and systemic approaches.

## From System-B to System-A

### (i) Pattern language for the community

From preprogrammed assembly to local adaptation with feedback and correction

### (ii) Construction budget
From overemphasizing tangible aspects to negotiating collective feelings

### (iii) Reality of the land
From drawing abstract layout plans to adjusting the wholeness on the real site


## From waterfall methods to agile

### (i) Writing user stories
From detailing specifications to  conversing on narratives

### (ii) Scoping; estimating value,  costs and dates
From projecting and committing to converging on estimates

### (iii) Reviewing iteratively; tracking work item backlogs
From dividing-and-conquering to collaborating for learning

## Amplifications from Alexandrian to service systems thinking

### 1.Shared meaning on the situated

The pattern is merely a mental image, which can help to predict those situations where forces will be in harmony, and those in which they won‘t. **But the actual forces which will occur in a real situation, although objectively present there, are, in the end unpredictable,  because each situation is so complex, and forces may grow, or die, according to subtle variations of circumstance (Alexander, 1979, pp. 285–286).**

### 2.Systems thinking and complexity

Systems generating systems
1. There are two ideas hidden in the word system: the idea of a system as a whole and the idea of a generating system.
2. A system as a whole is not an object but a way of looking at an object. It focuses on some holistic property which can only be understood as a product of interaction among parts.
3. A generating system is not a view of a single thing. It is a kit of parts, with rules about the way these parts may be combined.
4. **Almost every ‘system as a whole’ is generated by a ‘generating system’**. If we wish to make things which function as ‘wholes’ we shall have to invent generating systems to create them.
In a properly functioning building, the building and the people in it together form a whole: a social, human whole. 
The building systems which have so far been created do not in this sense generate wholes at all (Alexander, 1968, p. 605).

### 3.Method content + development process

Volume 1, The Timeless Way of Building [TWB], and Volume 2, A Pattern Language [APL], are two halves of a single work. This book [APL] provides a language, for building and planning; the other book [TWB] provides the theory and instructions for the sue of the language. 

This book [APL] describes the detailed patterns for towns and neighbourhoods, houses, gardens and rooms. 

The other book [TWB] explains the discipline which makes it possible to use these patterns to create a building or a town.  This book [APL] is the sourcebook of the timeless way; the other [TWB] is its practice and its origin (Alexander et al., 1977, p. ix).

## Source

David Ing, 2016 - Pattern Manual for Service Systems Thinking: http://coevolving.com/pubs/20161028_PUARL_Ing_PatternManualForServiceSystems_v1029a.pdf
