## Generation of pattern languages and sequences

Patterns languages and sequences cannot be "constructed" from scratch (assembled) and must be generated by a differentiating step by step process.

# GENERATE A PATTERN LANGUAGE 

Patterns language can be generated by this step by step sequence.

*need to find a way to make 'centers' more understandable or creat a game to extract these*
*analogies are cornerstone of patterns. how do we get a group to observe and detect analogies/recurrence in its system? -> use poweful questions: what are a affraid of ? what is our purpose*

reccuring: tools, events


## WHOLENESS OBSERVATION/PERCEPTION
Observe and feel the wholeness of system. Particular important to feel the latent centers "what wants to emerge ?"  

feel/observe particularly the margins of the system.

## CREATIVE MOOD SETTING
Get people in a mood governed by feeling not reason/head
Create a space/time so people can share their dreams.

## STORY COLLECTION
Collect stories to get a verbal picture
this is poetic vision, not a sociological survey

## PATTERN LANGUAGE SKETCH 
intuitive amalgation of people's dream to build a draft pattern language
list of patterns = essential elements
draft will be refined by further discussions

## LANGUAGE COMPLETENESS
Use the 7 principes below to create a complete pattern language

### 1 RELATIONSHIPS
defines possible configurations the language generates

### 2 (SPATIAL) ENTITIES
langauge containe or defines several entities, the relationships are defined among these entities.

### 3 RELIABILITY
relationships are reliable and true, not arbitrary

### 4 CONSISTENCY
Consistency between patterns to generate real physical configurations

### 5 INCONSISTENCY
sometimes refreshing and life giving, generates vigor and opens new ideas (PROBLEM IS THE SOLUTION)

### 6 COMPLETENESS
System of patterns is complete if it contains sufficient relationships to allow well formed configuration to be built.

### 7 COHERENCE
The relationships among patterns tend most of the time to generate easily graspable geometrical configurations.


# GENERATIVE SEQUENCE GENERATION

## GENERATIVE SEQUENCE
Ideally the geometrical configuration can be constructed by following certain sequential procedure that will always lead to a coherent configuration in a small number of steps. Generative sequence itself cannot be "constructed" and must be generated.

## ITERATIVE STEPS
Work step by step to reduce the number of variables you have to deal with for decision at any step. Steps allow for evaluation times.

## EVALUATION

At each step evaluate the result. Does it add new centers ? Does it increase the strenght of the centers ? Check against your pattern language and the 15 geometrical properties. 
Check for mistakes
mistake (error) = miss + take = forgot to take something into account.

If there is smething you missed go back to previous step.

## NO IMAGES
Avoid the use of real images and drawing and instead work with people's inner images. If you do need to visualize use rough sketchs, prototypes and mock ups so that people are not trapped in the details of the image but rather in the mainframe at each steps.

# LIVING ARCHITECTURE CONSTRUCTION (EISHIN SEQUENCE)

This sequence is based on the work done by Christopher Alexander on the Eishin Campus in Japan and documented in his book the battle for the life and beauty of the earth.

## 0 (AGREEMENT)
Make sure user understand fully the process and where it will take them. Particularly important is the fact, not everything will be possible, the path might appear blur at first but will clarify all the way, no plans will be made/used (better to focus on flexible mental images) but design on the ground and using prototypes will be used instead.

## USERS MICROCOSM

Identify users from the various stakeholder groups so as to form a small group who will work regularly on the project. This microcosm should be chosen (or better volunteered) to represent the wider macrocosm of users.

## PEOPLE'S DREAMS

Make people Dream and share their dreams using interview or better powerful question such as remember the future.

Asking people to share their dreams brings them in intuitive mode, in touch with their feeling the quality of the output is much better and more powerful than anything the intellect can provide.

Ex "I remember walking near a place with water and trees where I could think quietly about my courses..."

## DRAFT PATTERN LANGUAGE

Build a dream pattern language by grouping together elements and describing relationships between them. The language is a rough map of a system of centers. 

## LANGUAGE COMPLETENESS

Check the pattern language using the 7 principles for completeness:
- relationships
- spatial
- reliability
- consistency
- inconsistency
- completeness
- coherence

Move from whole to parts to whole to refine the language.

## USERS VALIDATION

after listing all the essential centers and their relationships, validate with users (or a selected sub group, committee, that represent all the users). Have them discuss and adjust, then validate the pattern language before proceeding further

## RESSOURCES FIT

Fit and adjust the pattern language to available resources. If a center is  too costly to be made, try to make it smaller such as to keep the spirit/intent/function but in a feasible way.

In Eishing Alexander matched estimated cost for indoor and outdoor for the wanted surface with the available budget and reduce surface areas by certain percentage so as to keep all the pattern but in a smaller way. Not all the surface were reduced equally and it was on done on a per-structure basis. The best way to do this is present the constraint to users committee and make them negotiate consensus between them on what should be done. they should know this early on so that they accept it.

## LAND CENTERS

Walk on the land, feel it again and again. Map important centers (soil types, views, landforms topology, existing structures, plants, animal routes, climate, noise, …).

Choose the 7 major most natural centers to focus on.

## CENTERS COMBINATIONS

Combine the two systems of centers: your pattern language and the land centers.

Use the the new centers brought by the pattern language to heal old/existing centers.

Use the 15 geometric properties as a guide to check afterwards if your potential actions will make reinforce existing centers and the place more alive.

This is the most difficult part of the process and you'll need to use intuition and feeling rather and intellect and analysis

## MODELS PROTOTYPES

Traditional building processes occured over decade or centuries. To emulate a similar process over days or years, use models that you can design and manipulate quickly and cheaply.

On the land use flags and poles to get a site plan where each thing feels at the right place. A small scale model allow to try options while working remotely.

Try various alternatives, look from different angles, use instinct and intuition and keep the ones that feels right.

The overall structure must feel like a living thing.

## DETAILLED BUILDING POSITION

After placing carefully the building on the land, and only then, can a detailled site plan be made on paper. This is the only hardline drawing ever done during the overall process.

# BUILDING GENERATIVE PROCESS (EISHIN SEQUENCE)

## BUILDINGS CRITICAL FEATURES

Answer these critical questions before proceeding to design:
- Width (meters) ?
- Lenght (meters) ?
- Number of stories ?
- Height (meters) ?
- What is the roof slope ?
- What is the exterior wall height (meters) ?
- Where are the entrances, and in what direction do they point ?
- What is the building's main axis, or axes, with respect to the land ?
- What direction is the axis pointing ?
- Is there a hierarchy of spaces in the building, and in what sequence should they be experienced ?
- What is the natural repeating bay-size for structural columns ?
- What are the structural bays ?
- How big are the main columns and the smaller columns ?
How many windows are there, and what size and shape are they ?
- What main interior spaces are given ?
- What additionnal subsidiary volumes are attached to the main volumes: terraces, proches, galleries, arcades ?
- Interior gardens associated with homerooms buildings and fully enclose by walls ?

after that, the work always ends with a very small thumbnail sketch, which captures the essence of that particular building and allows a ROUGH MODEL to be started.


## SYMMETRY AND SIMPLICITY

_Design simple symmetric structures sharing similar patterns, while adjusting each one to the local conditions._

The appearance of symmetry in nature comes about because there is a symmetry of the conditions where the thing in question exists. In most cases, the symmetries occur because there is no good reason for asymmetries to occur.

Most building have characteristics which generate similar conditions inside according to to symmetrical positions inside the building. Most traditional and ancient buildings have a structural plan which is symmetrical (other thing being equal), because it is the simplest thing to do, and the most satisfying, and structurally the most stable.

As a result, the sensible and natural rule of thumb for building shape is that building will, in most cases, have at least one axis of symmetry in plan, sometimes, two axial symmetries at right angles to one another.

Floors will be similar, except for a natural gradation from ground floor to roof, usually made necessary by differences of light and ease of access as one goes upward from the ground. That is why building have a partial translational symmetry as one move upward, from floor to floor.

There is an overwhelming reason why the buildings in a group of functionally related buildings look similar. It is because they share the fundamental ground conditions, which will produce roughly similar, and internally symmetrical, shapes and sizes, and organization.

These elementary considerations make it highly unlikely that there should be a need for wild variations of shape, configuration, or articulation. There will be some, of course, when called for; but modest, not exaggerated.

That is why churches (and many traditional buildings) used to be symmetrical, because it was the simplest and therefore the most profound condition.

Symmetries are the simplest ways to build things. They are the most elegant. and the simplicity of the external enveloppes, provide immense scope for DECORATION AND ORNEMENTATION which follows from the internal symmetries. 

## BUILDING GROUPS

All the issues have been established as an important and deep practical matter in the previous chapters. All these issues are now going to be applied to the buildings, thus making the shape and geometry of the building resonant with the quality already established in detail and in the global pattern of the whole. Now the buildings take their shape from the same key principles.

Each of the elements in the following list were essential to the creation of every space and every building at Eishin.

- the way each building relates to its surroundings, as well as the ground on which is stands.
- the geometry directed by its position in the whole and its function.
Working with people who will inhabit the spaces.
The immensely detailed use of MODELS and experiments.
- The search for beautiful MATERIALS and ways of making the buildings that should stand there.
- The careful use of MONEY in a manner that reflects the values of the endeavor.
- Creation of POSITIVE SPACE, at every turn, and every scale.
- Placing MATERIALS between other nearby materials that are similar, and wedging harmonious materials in-between.
- Interlocking spatial links forming a two dimensional sheet of courtyads, buildings, and openings.

## 3D DESIGN WITH MODELS

_Design in three dimensions by making, using and testing models._

Through model building - a dynamic active process (not mechanical passive transcription of a plan drawing) one finds by intuition, shape, size, degree of enclosure, height of perimeter walls, number of openings, extent of views enabling people to look out, and quality of material (masonry, foliage, flowers, height of low solid wall and so forth).

The model is built up, step by step, considering the creation of space as a series of experiments, testing variables and continuing to make judgements about the life and pleasantness of the space as a place that is really nice to be in.

The model is built up as a three dimensional volume, and it is this model which is ultimately best achieved by a physical mockup, using bamboos, ropes, sheets of cloth, possibly sheets of paper or cardboard.

The process of building up this mockup is necessarily gradual.

If it is impossible, for practical reasons, to make a full-size model, it is still liekly to be useful to make a small model, roughly to scale. In this case, it is essential that the model makers look at the model by putting one's eye to the ground, and then look to see height, distance of views, overall sizes of any opening, and its impact on the place. Make sure there is no claustrophobic feeling (if a perimeter is too closed, too high, …).

This is an experimental process, and at each step you must allow yourself to be guided by the pleasantness of the sequence of the spaces, one to another, and the pleasantness of the various views in different directions, establishing a truly wonderful experience

During the design, offices, were filled models, dozens and dozens of them. All these models were in a constant state of growth, change, cut and paste, scissors and paint… Worked at, worked at, until you feel completely comfortable with them. The realty of of this process tend to make the buildings unique and particular.

Building a large model in this way is very similar to the process normally followed in construction by Alexander. While you are looking at a building, you look at the real thing day after day, and keep making mockups to see what will be most harmonious, as the particulars unfolds during construction. For alexander, years of construction has shown that this kind of work, on a site, is the only way to get real character, and real harmony, into the building, because the details, the detailed organization, then really comes from human feeling, are guided by human feeling, and are guaranteed, by this method actually to have true human feeling in the result.

The use of large models during the design process has the same effect. Working with such medium allows to see exactly what we are doing. We can feel feel the real relation to various exterior details (which must always be part of the model). We can feel the real effect of subtle changes in height, forms, and outline, and we can feel the real character of different interior spaces, and the feeling they produce.

some 200 models were used to build Eishin. they convey the range, size, roughness, and charm of the models and their ultimate accuracy, yet the models were all made rapidly, sometimes, in minutes, never more than hours.

Models are built together in parallel in relationship to each other while also in relation to the POSITIVE SPACE they create.

## POSITIVE SPACE

_Life on the place and in people will always depend on the extend to which these outdoor spaces are positive and made up of positive spaces (p198, p213)._

_Shape positive space incrementally, step by step, all over the land_

A positive space is an outdoor space without a ceiling. the perimeter of such a space may be enclosed by wall, or partially enclosed by walls. It may even be enclosed by a few markers - columns or trees - and the rest of the perimeter is open.

One cannot consider the building without also think about their position and interlock with positive space around the buildings, which is also surrounded by buildings. the outdoor spaces of importance are stacked, flagged, and then formed by the building, as if they were walls.

These outdoor spaces are of the greatest importance, and are (almost) more important than the building themselves, as defining social spaces and gathering places. details of process in chapter 11, p198

This process is of immense significance in the layout and connection of the outdoor spaces. It is this which gives the campus ifs very positive feeling and success. 

Without these exterior spaces, the community (viewed as a social system) would hardly work at all.

## COMPLEX VARIETY OF MATERIALS
Use a variety of different materials in different quantities.

## MATERIALS PROTOTYPES

Build real size prototypes to find out which combinations of materials have more feeling.

## BUILD 

Remain open to change and opportunities that might come across. Problems are solutions, ie, try to turn unexpected thing into useful things.
craftmanship, have various people with crafts and talent build different parts, avoid the use of prefabricated structures that constraint the design


try to make cheap/fast mockups and see if they work/help increase the degree of life. Use poles with flags to visualize the position of structure, use cardboard, painting on small scale to visualize the effect of ornements, …

## WORKERS AUTONOMY

Make sure everyone understand the big picture and is passionate about his work, then let people make their own choice in building as much as possible while remaining consistant with the big picture.

## EVOLUTION
